Ushiwaka's amazing.
I'm getting excited!
All right, here we go!
Hello there, Left.
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Ushijima! Ushijima!
If Nishinoya couldn't...
Shake it off! You'll get the next one!
Yeah.
Don't worry about it!
Focus on the next one!
Give us a good serve!
It's going out!
Yes!
Sorry!
Nice serve, Taichi!
Give us another good serve, Kawanishi!
Got it!
Tanaka!
Sorry!
My bad.
It's fine!
Are they nervous after all?
Get the next one!
Their movements are really stiff.
Damn it.
If we don't stage a comeback soon, it'll be too late.
Calm down!
There's no time to self-destruct!
U-Um...
What the hell are you babies so afraid of?! The TV crews?!
Quit fucking around!
Got it! We got it, so calm down!
Suga's scary... I'm so sorry!
He's using the old trick. Get yelled at by someone even more tense than you are, and you get calmer.
I don't care how it happens.
I just need them to score once and build momentum.
Damn, the ref totally just gave me the stink eye...
Give us another good serve!
Got it!
Yes! He got it up cleanly!
Go!
Nice receive!
Wakatoshi!
All right!
Shake it off! You'll get the next one!
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Ushijima! Ushijima!
Give me three.
I promise I'll adapt to it.
Huh? I thought something was weird!
Again!
Shiratorizawa's number one is left-handed?
So that's why he approaches from the right.
Ryuu always goes in from the left.
Yeah.
Man, talk about being fated to be an ace.
Ushiwaka's position is called "opposite,"
and they're diagonal from the setter.
On Karasuno's side, it's where Sawamura is.
Depending on how the player in that position plays, the team's tactics change completely.
One strategy is to have an all-rounder who's good at defense like Sawamura there.
Got it!
All right!
Nice, Daichi!
Left!
You see a lot of this with high school teams.
The other strategy is to have a cannon like Ushiwaka there.
Nice receive!
They don't receive serves and are always prepared to attack from both the front and back row.
A while back, they were called super aces.
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Ushijima! Ushijima!
I mean, I get that the bastard's tall and has a lot of power in his attacks,
but does the fact that he's left-handed make him that—
Bring it!
All right!
Nice spike, Tanaka!
Go, go, Karasuno! Push it, push it, Karasuno!
We finally got a point... Way to go, Ryuu!
So, what's so special about the lefty?
Since they go up against people who are right-handed way more often,
playing against someone who's left-handed is unbelievably difficult.
For example, if you're jumping up to block somebody,
you want to jump in front of their dominant arm.
Which means they're offset by about a shoulder's width.
So unless the attack is a very simple one, the showdown is over in an instant.
Give us a good serve, Asahi!
If you jump based on your intuition...
A delayed timing attack.
...you'll end up missing, no matter what.
What the hell are they doing?
Karasuno's blocks are full of holes!
Ushijima! Ushijima!
It's not just the fact that he's left-handed that makes him good.
His firepower is also top-notch.
Nice spike, Wakatoshi! I see you're as sharp as ever.
Yeah.
That's the kind of player Ushiwaka is.
They've already gone on a four-point streak because of Ushijima.
Yeah.
Their setter's pretty reliable, and I'm sure he wanted to get a decisive lead early.
Switch gears!
Right!
Huh? What's that buzzer for?
Oh, this is a technical timeout.
Shiratorizawa!
What's that?
It's a timeout that only happens during best-of-fives when a team hits 8 or 16 points...
Shiratorizawa!
Apparently.
I see...
Blocking all comes down to timing!
Shiratorizawa!
If he can beat your blocks, getting in place for a receive will be hard too!
Even if you can't stop it, you need to make contact!
Shiratorizawa!
Make Ushijima feel like there's a wall in his way!
Yes, sir!
He touched it!
Damn it!
Wow... Nice spike, Ushijima!
Ushiwaka just doesn't stop.
Ushijima! Ushijima!
Shake it off! Get the next one!
That's it! Just keep that up!
Keep letting him know that there's a wall there.
Then a path will open up!
Shiratorizawa has Ushiwaka.
In that case... Karasuno has me.
That's right.
Stopping all of Ushijima's attacks, or even digging them out, is impossible.
But...
all you've got to do is make those spikes that are impossible to dig out possible.
Total defense.
As we've seen in past matches, Ushijima's really good at cross-court spikes, so we're going to focus our block there
and place Nishinoya in the now-clear path of a straight spike.
Make it so he's spiking toward our libero.
Their timing is perfect!
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Ushijima! Ushijima!
If Yuu can't dig those out, he's going to be impossible to handle.
I think it's because of the spin.
When a left-handed person hits a ball, the way it starts to spin is different from when a right-handed person does it.
Volleyball is a sport where you can't hold the ball,
and the area you contact it with is extremely narrow.
So if the way it hits your arms in that instant is even a tiny bit off, it causes a huge deviation.
We can score here!
Damn it! I'm sorry!
We're too late.
Nice spike, Ushijima!
It may be called total defense, but even just getting their timing down isn't easy.
Ushijima! Ushijima!
Concentrate on getting one point at a time!
Do you think you could stop Ushiwaka?
Of course not.
All right!
I've been focusing on Ushiwaka too hard.
Kawanishi! Kawanishi!
Is that kid with the glasses even trying?
He needs to show some more of that fighting spirit!
They're sneaking in some fast attacks really well.
They've gotta hurry and do something about the left-handed guy.
I guess there's not much they can do about how much they're used to right-handed spikes.
All right!
Sorry!
It's fine.
At least Kei isn't the type of player to let his feelings get carried away with him.
Give us a good serve!
He doesn't believe in his own strength.
And he doesn't trust the instincts he's cultivated.
Nice receive!
You're his older brother! How can you say that?!
I'm complimenting him!
You see, my little brother is such a cool customer that it's a letdown.
He only trusts what he can see.
Got it.
Kei was in the path of that spike.
He was also positioned correctly on the left, so why couldn't he block it?
You almost had it, Nishinoya!
Look at how you were able to react to his spike in time!
The spike that I actually got in front of was definitely not hit at full strength.
He's probably still getting warmed up and is focusing on looking for gaps in our blocking.
I remember from junior high how hard it is to receive the ball from someone left-handed.
I guess even his love taps are killer.
Tsukki, man! Is your finger jammed?! Are you okay?!
Did you have to make that rhyme?
I'll bandage you. Give it here.
Thanks.
This is a pretty common injury, isn't it?
I'm lucky that it's not even that bad.
There you go.
Thank you.
Did I hesitate back there?
No, I thought I'd lose.
I just assumed I would.
Guys!
You look stiff!
Relax! Relax! Re... lax.
Ushijima's really good at serving too, right?
He doesn't have monster precision or control like Oikawa, but his power speaks for itself.
Nice serve!
I don't get it.
What's with that guy?
If Shiratorizawa's lead gets any bigger, this'll be a tough game to watch.
Sorry! I'll get the next one!
Right!
I'm glad I don't have to receive serves right now.
Trying to take that serve head-on is crazy,
and it's like the whole gym is cheering for Shiratorizawa.
We're probably going to have to give up the first set, and then...
Bring it.
Bring it! Bring it!
Bring it! Bring it! Bring it!
Do it again!
Bring it to me!
Now bring it!
He got it up!
Yes! That's perfect!
Finish it!
Is he planning on spiking it?
All right!
Nice set, Kageyama!
I totally thought Kageyama was going to spike it.
It only took him three like he said.
We can't just stand around.
He looked like he was going to spike but actually set the ball.
Nothing less from Oikawa's junior.
What? He is?!
That sucks!
You're awfully calm for playing against Shiratorizawa.
Right now I can't think of anything scarier than Oikawa.
I see!
All right! Time to fight back!
Shouyou came out!
The first time he was put in, he got rotated out of the front row immediately.
Get one in there!
Give us a good serve!
Man, he's really short.
I guess that's why he's a middle blocker.
Nice receive!
You're right! He really won't go for serves!
He's getting ready for a back row attack.
All right!
A one-man delayed timing attack.
Yay!
Tendou! Tendou!
Give us a good serve!
Out!
All right!
Nice eye!
It's not like Shiratorizawa isn't also making mistakes.
We can break through!
All right!
Yes!
The fact that Kageyama and Nishinoya are playing like they normally do is nothing less than amazing.
Nice serve, Kageyama!
Indeed!
Goshiki!
All right!
Did you see my super straight spike?!
Nice receive.
Nah, it was a bit off.
Don't you ever get tired from being so wound up about everything?
That kid's pretty good for a first-year.
Let's go, Kageyama.
Yeah.
Ushijima!
All right! He got it!
Damn! I was a bit off!
The last hit's all yours, Hinata!
He hit it off the block!
That was a great rebound shot!
Let's try again!
Huh?
I'm Hinata Shouyou, from the concrete.
I'm gonna crush you and go to nationals.
He can receive too?!
Give it to me.
Ushijima!
Yes!
Wow.
Wakatoshi, who's only interested in himself, is getting fired up?
How interesting!
It's not over yet! It's just the beginning!
Switch it up!
We'll win the next set!
Wakatoshi, do you know Karasuno's number ten?
I met him on the street.
The street?
He said that he was going to beat me and go to nationals.
And he said that on the street?!
No, not there.
Come to think of it, didn't you get in trouble for letting non-students onto school grounds?
Karasuno's number ten is so interesting!
Now I know why you like him.
No, I dislike him.
Huh?
I hate baseless confidence.
Oh? This is even more rare.
If he made you say this stuff, it sounds like he'll entertain me.
I guess I'll work hard too.
There's no reason to panic.
They just happened to take the first of five sets.
And on the topic of the first set...
Ushijima scored 11 points, which is nearly half.
But the fact that Shiratorizawa keeps giving him the ball means you've started to get under their skin.
Even Ushijima's human.
He'll run out of stamina at some point.
He'll eventually start to get frustrated with his attacks not always landing.
Keep that in mind!
Yes, sir!
Bring it!
You'd better start us off strong, Tsutomu!
Right!
That was good.
A synchronized attack!
The four of them are attacking at the same time?
All right!
Go, go, Karasuno! Push it, push it, Karasuno!
They tricked us.
How annoying.
Give us a good serve, Daichi!
Got it!
Nice receive!
Nice.
Thanks.
The fact that they're setting for their middle blockers instead of using Ushijima shows they're relaxed.
And if those two middle blockers start functioning well,
we're not going to be able to handle Ushijima, nor their other wing spikers.
Yeah!
Nice spike!
Our biggest hurdle in this match is, of course, Ushijima.
We need some strategy to counter him first, or we don't stand a chance.
And for that, we need to break down our opponents.
Give us a good serve, Asahi!
We need to keep beating them down with powerful attacks.
Yes! He messed up the receive!
Ushijima!
All right!
Damn it.
Shake it off!
Even if they score, we just have to keep doing what we've been doing, right?
Yeah.
Ugh.
That guy's serving again.
Give us a good one, Wakatoshi!
I totally meant to do that!
You're starting to cry, you know.
Well done, Tanaka!
Nice. They're keeping up.
If they can get used to Ushiwaka's left-handedness, they have a chance at winning!
You'll be begging for mercy when I'm done with you, Ushiwaka!
Did something happen between Hinata and Ushiwaka?
Apparently they had a bit of a run-in.
What?!
He sure keeps causing trouble with other schools behind our backs!
Don't play it safe.
Bring it!
Just keep on attacking.
That's the only strategy we can use.
Here's our chance!
Give it to me!
It's that diagonal jump again!
If you wanna beat Wakatoshi, you're gonna have to go through me.
Got it?
The more attention Wakatoshi gets, the bigger impact I have when I appear.
Tendou, your personality really is garbage.
Stop! No spoilers!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Guessing Monster."
Got a wish that can't be forced through
Barely hanging on and staying true
With a little help from timing and your crew
You can still stay standing
Wanna take the fight head-on
Might get lost, but keep on keeping on
'Cause that's where your chance lies
The rest is up to you, yes
The rest is up to you
Make your dreams and ideals come true
Or sit tight and let the future pass on through
The rest is up to you
You ain't the luckiest of guys
And you ain't anywhere near wise
The winds of change are too bright for your eyes
But you wanna have all the luck
Stuff all the wisdom junk in your trunk
And live holding your head up high
The rest is up to you, yes
It's all up to you People might call you naive
And say you're not doing it right
But the rest is up to you
Don't lose your way, and push on anew
It's all up to you
Light a fire in every cell of your body
By taking a deep, long breath
Turn your blood and tears into offerings
Carry a torch fueled by your desires
And scream out at full volume Let there be light
With a prayer for the future, start your sprint
Let there be light, use the dark as your runway
And sprint through the path you chose
Let there be light, believe in the glory within your grasp
And run headlong into the despair in front of you
Let there be light
There is only one reason I kick the ground
It is so I shine brighter and soar higher than before
Let there be light, so that your brilliance of today
Shows your friends who are lost The way to the future
To those who bear the cross of their dreams
The warriors who seek eternal glory Let there be light
Episode Two: The Threat of "Left"
Episode Three: The Guessing Monster
Shiratorizawa                  Karasuno
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Shiratorizawa                 Karasuno
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Opposite m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Setter
Shiratorizawa                  Karasuno
Japanese National High School Volleyball Tournament
Shiratorizawa                     Karasuno
Ushijima Ushijima Block Block Nishinoya Nishinoya
Nishinoya Nishinoya Block Block Nishinoya Nishinoya
Nishinoya Nishinoya Nishinoya Nishinoya Block Block
Nishinoya Nishinoya Block Block
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Shiratorizawa                  Karasuno
Shiratorizawa                 Karasuno
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Karasuno                   Shiratorizawa
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Ushijima (WS)
Kawanishi (MB)
Goshiki (WS)
Oohira (WS)
Tendou (MB)
Shirabu (S)
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Karasuno High School vs. Shiratorizawa Academy
Karasuno High School vs. Shiratorizawa Academy !!
!!
Haikyuu Haikyuu !!
Haikyuu !!
Haikyuu